As a Computer Science student, the single most challenging time of my degree was my first year. As a result of my last-minute decision to pursue the subject, I lacked a lot of the foundational knowledge that my peers had. With the understanding I now possess of Zull's model of learning and the way it contextualises the way we synthesise information, I feel confident that, if faced with a similar situation, I can approach it more effectively and improve the quality of my learning.

The single biggest deficiency in my approach was that, despite lacking a lot of important information and understanding, I rushed ahead and tried to "optimise" my time by skipping past content and not instead spending time building up my foundational understanding. With the appreciation I now have for the neurological process of learning, I see why this is ineffective: by neglecting the importance of reflection and thinking in my learning, it took me much longer than it ought to have to understand how the various concepts I was studying linked together. In doing so I lacked the mental model that would have helped me be a more effective learner. This is critical to the reflection stage of the learning process; which would have enabled me to make meaningful relationships between the various concepts learnt and how they fit into my wider understanding of the subject as a hole. Instead, my negligence at the time led to me hindering my learning and bounding my wider understanding.

Another issue I faced was that I neglected doing problem sheets and tutorial questions, as a result of which I did not solidify the concepts I studied to the fullest. As I now understand, abstracting general principles and concepts and using them in context is paramount to successful and effective learning. By decomposing and applying the concepts learned, we are able to engage our working memory and build associations to better our understanding.

Two of the other concepts we looked at also come to mind as relevant to this time in my life: neuromyths and executive functioning. I often sought out "cheat codes" to better my ability to learn. These included trying various supplements such as vitamins and minerals (popularised as 'Nootropics') in a bid to "hack my brain". Having now read some scientific literature regarding 'Nootropics', I realise that there is no replacement for the basics: looking after oneself. This leads me onto how I was neglecting myself and this impacted my executive functioning. At this time, I often neglected my sleep and overall wellbeing in favour of social activities. This lead to worse sleep and poor nutrition. Furthermore, it introduced unnecessary stress into my life, as I was behind on work. This had a tangible effect on my attention and ability to regulate my emotions, alongside plenty of other issues that I probably had but was unaware of, such as inferior cognitive restoration and memory consolidation.

By deepening my understanding of Neuroscience, I now have a better framework from which to approach my learning. Whilst I no longer have the issues I discuss above, I am sure I will carry these lessons into the future!